---
layout: post
title: 'Thoughts on "Drunk Post: Things I''ve learned as a Sr Engineer"'
subtitle: "Part I"
author: "Jianfei"
header-img: "img/bg-03.jpg"
header-mask: 0.3
catalog: true
tags:
  - Software Engineering
  - Front-end Development
---

Hey, guys. I read this old reddit post form 2 years ago and fount it interesting. <br />
Link: [Drunk Post: Things I've learned as a Sr Engineer](https://www.reddit.com/r/ExperiencedDevs/comments/nmodyl/drunk_post_things_ive_learned_as_a_sr_engineer/)

The author wrote a lot of arguments but didn't evaluate. Everyone may have different understandings due to various work experiences. <br />
Here are some of the excerpts and my comments below.

> Technology stacks don't really matter because there are like 15 basic patterns of software engineering in my field that apply.

As in front-end development it is very true because the stacks change too fast. A good React developer should be able to write good Vue codes with no doubts. Every years come the new tools and your stacks get outdated constantly. <br />
Take React state management as an example, at early days we have Flux, Reflux, Redux. And then we use Mobx, Recoil or Context API. They are designed to work best for different scenarios and achieve the goals in different ways. But it really doesn't matter. Actions, observer, atoms, whatever. We just need a mechanism to share the state across the app and that's all. What's important is are you using it in the way it should. I saw a lot of developers putting everything in global states. A good developer should know when to use it rather than six different approaches to do it.

> There's a reason why people recommend job hunting. If I'm unsatisfied at a job, it's probably time to move on.

Form my experiences, there could never be a job to perfectly meet all your requirements. There should be a career path inside your head and know what are the priorities when pick a job at different periods of life, and when to step out of your comfort zone and move on. <br />
For example, I resigned from my first job at 2016 and left Singapore. That is a significant turning point in my life as I stayed there for 14 years. The job was considerably good. It payed well, it was and still is the largest tech company in the region and that was the only job so far I may acquire a work-life balance. But the works there are too entry-level and I should not waste my best ages to improve myself. So I joined Alibaba and eventually learnt a lot from the experts.<br />
Job hunting is okay but job hopping is really bad, especially with stupid reasons. It means you didn't do enough digging and made the decision too easily. Once you accept a job, you should be fully committed to it for at least two years. Until there's nothing more to learn.

> I've learned to be honest with my manager. Not too honest, but honest enough where I can be authentic at work. What's the worse that can happen? He fire me? I'll just pick up a new job in 2 weeks.

When I see something wrong happening, like an unreasonable requirement, an underestimated workload, nowadays I would choose to talk to the person in charge or our CTO. But years ago I might just accept all the works without any question, or with my personal time. I saw a lot of young developer complaining about their jobs but dare to show their thoughts in the office. In retrospect, the reasons for my change is that you think you could be the hero but nobody really cares. They may not even be aware. So just put all the problems on the table and solve them before doing it. That is good for the team and myself.

> If I'm awaken at 2am from being on-call for more than once per quarter, then something is seriously wrong and I will either fix it or quit.

Similarly, if I have to work overtime constantly, something is seriously wrong. Either I am not working in a efficient way or they just throw you too many works to do. Anyway the problem must be pinpointed immediately and get solved. Otherwise, it is not worthy to keep this job. <br /> However, from my observation, some low-level developers lack the ability to optimize their work process to become efficient. If a task should be done repeatedly, it definitely worth a script. If a lot of hidden rules are going on and people frequently made mistakes, made a pipeline or form to perform it rather than do it manually. These are quite the basic skills to make our lives easier.

To be continued....
